= Figures =

== Types of plotting functions ==

There are various plotting functions (e.g. {{{plot_erp}}}, {{{plot_tfr}}}) that take in numeric values, and do not require data structures such as patterns.  These functions are designed to be easy to use even with other toolboxes.  Each of the {{{plot_*}}} functions only draws one figure, and does not save it.

Other functions, which begin with {{{pat_}}}, such as {{{pat_erp}}}, can make many plots.  For example, {{{pat_erp}}} will generally make one plot for each electrode.  Each of these plots is printed to hard drive, and the paths to each of the figures is saved in a _figure object_.  Figure objects can be used to make [Reports reports].

== Uses for different plotting functions ==

{{{pat_erp}}} is generally used for plotting event-related potentials.  However, it can also be used to plot power patterns; in this case, a plot is made for each electrode and frequency.  {{{pat_erp_image}}} is useful for examining the EEG for individual trials, as well as the average over trials.  {{{pat_tfr}}} is designed to plot time-frequency representations such as power values, and can make spectrograms or frequency plots depending whether there are multiple time bins in the pattern.

There are two general ways to plot data in a topographic format.  {{{pat_topoplot}}} uses a color map to plot individual time bins, either on a cartoon topographic map, or a realistic 3D head model.  {{{pat_plottopo}}}, on the other hand, plots whole ERPs, which are arranged in a topographic layout.