= Statistics =

_Statistics objects_ generally contain information about statistical tests or pattern classification, but they can store information about any analysis.  They simply have a name and a reference to a MAT-file that contains the details about the analysis.

This section also describes an important part of the toolbox, regressors.  [Regressors Regressors] are used for many tasks, including calculation of [Averaging event-related averages], creating [Statmaps statistical maps], and running [Patclass pattern classification] analysis.

== Statistical maps ==

Univariate statistical tests produce statistical maps, or _statmaps_.  A separate statistical test is run for each channel, time, and frequency in a pattern to produce a map of significance values.  Statmaps may be created by {{{pattern_statmap}}}, and significance is plotted by many of the plotting functions in the toolbox.  Some tests, such as multi-way ANOVAs, return multiple significance values.  In this case, different effects may be named by a variable called {{{names}}} saved with the stat object.

== Using R for advanced statistics ==

{{{stat_R}}} is a general wrapper for running statistical tests in R, a free program that includes support for many advanced statistical tests.  There are a few R scripts included in the toolbox, such as {{{rmaov1.R}}}, which can be used as templates to write new tests. Currently the interface between MATLAB and R is rather primitive, however, so making statmaps using R can be slow.

== Pattern classification ==

Pattern classification results are saved in standard _res_ structures.  These results structures follow the format of MVPA results structures, except the _iterations_ substruct is 4-D, corresponding to the dimensions of the pattern that was classified.